# Core_Java_Ex
## What is java
### Java is a programming language and a platform. Java is a high level, robust, object-oriented and secure programming language.

## Who developed **java** ?
### Java was developed by Sun Microsystems (which is now the subsidiary of Oracle) in the year 1995. **James Gosling** is known as the father of Java.

## What is **Platform**, is Java Platform independent?
### Any hardware or software environment in which a program runs, is known as a platform. Since Java has a runtime environment (JRE) and API, it is called a platform.
### And Yes it is Platform Independent, which mean compile once and run everywer.

# Java Example
```

class Simple{  
    public static void main(String args[]){  
     System.out.println("Hello Java");  
    }  
}  
```
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 	

# java Variable
## variable is the name of memory area that is reserved , it stores some values and and can be changed if needed
### There are three types of Variable's 
1. Local : A variable declared inside the body of the method is called local variable. 
2. instance : A variable declared inside the class but outside the body of the method.
3. Static : A variable which is declared as static is called static variable. Memory allocation happens during Memory allocation itself 

# Data Types in Java
## Data types specify the different sizes and values that can be stored in the variable. 
1. Primitive Data Type : The primitive data types include boolean, char, byte, short, int, long, float and double.
2. Non-Primitive Data Type : The non-primitive data types include Classes, Interfaces, and Arrays.

### Primitive means java is statically typed this means, any variable to de used first it needs to be Declared . 

# Unicode System
## Unicode is a universal international standard character encoding that is capable of representing most of the world's written languages
## in Unicode charecter holds 2 bytes.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

a[href='red'] {
    color: red;
    pointer-events: none;
    cursor: default;
    text-decoration: none;
}

<a href="red">Look, ma! Red!</a>

# List of Java Keywords

<ol class="points">
<li><strong><a href="abstract-keyword-in-java">abstract</a>:</strong> Java abstract keyword is used to declare abstract class. Abstract class can provide the implementation of interface. It can have abstract and non-abstract methods.</li>
<li><strong><a href="boolean-keyword-in-java">boolean:</a></strong> Java boolean keyword is used to declare a variable as a boolean type. It can hold True and False values only.</li>
<li><strong><a href="java-break">break</a>:</strong> Java break keyword is used to break loop or switch statement. It breaks the current flow of the program at specified condition.</li>
<li><strong><a href="byte-keyword-in-java">byte</a>:</strong> Java byte keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold an 8-bit data values.</li>
<li><strong><a href="case-keyword-in-java">case</a>:</strong> Java case keyword is used to with the switch statements to mark blocks of text.</li>
<li><strong><a href="try-catch-block">catch</a>:</strong> Java catch keyword is used to catch the exceptions generated by try statements. It must be used after the try block only.</li>
<li><strong><a href="char-keyword-in-java">char</a>:</strong> Java char keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold unsigned 16-bit Unicode characters</li>
<li><strong><a href="class-keyword-in-java">class</a>:</strong> Java class keyword is used to declare a class.</li>
<li><strong><a href="java-continue">continue</a>:</strong> Java continue keyword is used to continue the loop. It continues the current flow of the program and skips the remaining code at the specified condition.</li>
<li><strong><a href="default-keyword-in-java">default</a>:</strong> Java default keyword is used to specify the default block of code in a switch statement.</li>
<li><strong><a href="java-do-while-loop">do</a>:</strong> Java do keyword is used in control statement to declare a loop. It can iterate a part of the program several times.</li>
<li><strong><a href="double-keyword-in-java">double</a>:</strong> Java double keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold a 64-bit floating-point numbers.</li>
<li><strong><a href="java-if-else">else</a>:</strong> Java else keyword is used to indicate the alternative branches in an if statement.</li>
<li><strong><a href="enum-in-java">enum</a>:</strong> Java enum keyword is used to define a fixed set of constants. Enum constructors are always private or default.</li>
<li><strong><a href="inheritance-in-java">extends</a>:</strong> Java extends keyword is used to indicate that a class is derived from another class or interface.</li>
<li><strong><a href="final-keyword">final</a>:</strong> Java final keyword is used to indicate that a variable holds a constant value. It is applied with a variable. It is used to restrict the user.</li>
<li><strong><a href="finally-block-in-exception-handling">finally</a>:</strong> Java finally keyword indicates a block of code in a try-catch structure. This block is always executed whether exception is handled or not.</li>
<li><strong><a href="float-keyword-in-java">float</a>:</strong> Java float keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold a 32-bit floating-point number.</li>
<li><strong><a href="java-for-loop">for</a>:</strong> Java for keyword is used to start a for loop. It is used to execute a set of instructions/functions repeatedly when some conditions become true. If the number of iteration is fixed, it is recommended to use for loop.</li>
<li><strong><a href="java-if-else">if</a>:</strong> Java if keyword tests the condition. It executes the if block if condition is true.</li>
<li><strong><a href="interface-in-java">implements</a>:</strong> Java implements keyword is used to implement an interface. </li> 
<li><strong><a href="package">import</a>:</strong> Java import keyword makes classes and interfaces available and accessible to the current source code.</li>
<li><strong><a href="downcasting-with-instanceof-operator">instanceof</a>:</strong> Java instanceof keyword is used to test whether the object is an instance of the specified class or implements an interface.</li>
<li><strong><a href="int-keyword-in-java">int</a>:</strong> Java int keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold a 32-bit signed integer.</li>
<li><strong><a href="interface-in-java">interface</a>:</strong> Java interface keyword is used to declare an interface. It can have only abstract methods.</li>
<li><strong><a href="long-keyword-in-java">long</a>:</strong> Java long keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold a 64-bit integer.</li>
<li><strong>native:</strong> Java native keyword is used to specify that a method is implemented in native code using JNI (Java Native Interface).</li>
<li><strong><a href="new-keyword-in-java">new</a>:</strong> Java new keyword is used to create new objects.</li>
<li><strong><a href="null-keyword-in-java">null</a>:</strong> Java null keyword is used to indicate that a reference does not refer to anything. It removes the garbage value.</li>
<li><strong><a href="package">package</a>:</strong> Java package keyword is used to declare a Java package that includes the classes.</li>
<li><strong><a href="private-keyword-in-java">private</a>:</strong> Java private keyword is an access modifier. It is used to indicate that a method or variable may be accessed only in the class in which it is declared.</li>
<li><strong><a href="protected-keyword-in-java">protected</a>:</strong> Java protected keyword is an access modifier. It can be accessible within package and outside the package but through inheritance only. It can't be applied on the class.</li>
<li><strong><a href="public-keyword-in-java">public</a>:</strong> Java public keyword is an access modifier. It is used to indicate that an item is accessible anywhere. It has the widest scope among all other modifiers.	</li>			
<li><strong><a href="return-keyword-in-java">return</a>:</strong> Java return keyword is used to return from a method when its execution is complete.</li>
<li><strong><a href="short-keyword-in-java">short</a>:</strong> Java short keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold a 16-bit integer.</li>
<li><strong><a href="static-keyword-in-java">static</a>:</strong> Java static keyword is used to indicate that a variable or method is a class method. The static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly.</li>
<li><strong><a href="strictfp-keyword">strictfp</a>:</strong> Java strictfp is used to restrict the floating-point calculations to ensure portability.</li>
<li><strong><a href="super-keyword">super</a>:</strong> Java super keyword is a reference variable that is used to refer parent class object. It can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.</li>
<li><strong><a href="java-switch">switch</a>:</strong> The Java switch keyword contains a switch statement that executes code based on test value. The switch statement tests the equality of a variable against multiple values.</li>
<li><strong><a href="synchronization-in-java">synchronized</a>:</strong> Java synchronized keyword is used to specify the critical sections or methods in multithreaded code.  </li>
<li><strong><a href="this-keyword">this</a>:</strong> Java this keyword can be used to refer the current object in a method or constructor.</li>
<li><strong><a href="throw-keyword">throw</a>:</strong> The Java throw keyword is used to explicitly throw an exception. The throw keyword is mainly used to throw custom exception. It is followed by an instance.</li>
<li><strong><a href="throws-keyword-and-difference-between-throw-and-throws">throws</a>:</strong> The Java throws keyword is used to declare an exception. Checked exception can be propagated with throws.</li>
<li><strong><a href="transient-keyword">transient</a>:</strong> Java transient keyword is used in serialization. If you define any data member as transient, it will not be serialized.</li>
<li><strong><a href="try-catch-block">try</a>:</strong> Java try keyword is used to start a block of code that will be tested for exceptions. The try block must be followed by either catch or finally block.</li>
<li><strong>void:</strong> Java void keyword is used to specify that a method does not have a return value.</li>
<li><strong><a href="volatile-keyword-in-java">volatile</a>:</strong> Java volatile keyword is used to indicate that a variable may change asynchronously.</li>
<li><strong><a href="java-while-loop">while</a>:</strong> Java while keyword is used to start a while loop. This loop iterates a part of the program several times. If the number of iteration is not fixed, it is recommended to use while loop.</li>
</ol>








